feat: large message in SQS and SNS (#1310)
aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-java: docs/utilities/large_messages.md

---
title: Large Messages
description: Utility
---

The large message utility handles SQS and SNS messages which have had their payloads
offloaded to S3 if they are larger than the maximum allowed size (256 KB).

!!! Notice
The large message utility (available in the `powertools-batch` module with v1.16.1 or lower) is now deprecated
and replaced by the `powertools-large-messages` described in this page.
You can still get the documentation [here](sqs_large_message_handling.md)
and the migration guide [here](#migration-from-the-sqs-large-message-utility).

## Features

- Automatically retrieve the content of S3 objects when SQS or SNS messages have been offloaded to S3.
- Automatically delete the S3 Objects after processing is OK.
- Compatible with the batch module (with SQS).

## Background

> SQS and SNS message payload is limited to 256KB. If you wish to send larger message payload, you can leverage the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQS and SNS message payload is limited to 256KB. If you wish to send messages with a larger payload, you can leverage the
```

[amazon-sqs-java-extended-client-lib](https://github.com/awslabs/amazon-sqs-java-extended-client-lib)
or [amazon-sns-java-extended-client-lib](https://github.com/awslabs/amazon-sns-java-extended-client-lib) which
offload the message to Amazon S3. See documentation
([SQS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-s3-messages.html)
/ [SNS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/large-message-payloads.html))

When offloaded to S3, the message contains a specific message attribute and the payload only contains a pointer to the
S3 object (bucket and object key).

This utility automatically retrieves messages which have been offloaded to S3 using the

> extended client libraries. Once the message payloads have been processed successful, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extended client libraries. Once a message's payload has been processed successfully, the
```

> utility also delete the message payloads from S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
utility deletes the payload from S3.
```

        }
    }
    ```

## Customizing S3 client configuration

To interact with S3, the utility creates a default S3 Client :

=== "Default S3 Client"
```java
S3Client client = S3Client.builder()
.httpClient(UrlConnectionHttpClient.builder().build())
.region(Region.of(System.getenv(AWS_REGION_ENV)))
.build();
```

If you need to customize this `S3Client`, you can leverage the `LargeMessageConfig` singleton:

=== "Custom S3 Client"
```java hl_lines="6"
import software.amazon.lambda.powertools.largemessages.LargeMessage;

    public class SnsRecordHandler implements RequestHandler<SNSEvent, String> {
        
        public SnsRecordHandler() {
            LargeMessageConfig.init().withS3Client(/* put your custom S3Client here */);
        }

        @Override
        public String handleRequest(SNSEvent event, Context context) {
            processSNSRecord(event.records.get(0)); 
            return "Hello World";
        }

        @LargeMessage
        private void processSNSRecord(SNSEvent.SNSRecord snsRecord) {
            // snsRecord.getSNS().getMessage() will contain the content of the S3 object
        }
    }
    ```

## Migration from the SQS Large Message utility

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add something saying "If you are still using the powertools-sqs library for batch processing, consider moving to `powertools-batch` at the same time to remove the dependency on this library completely; it has been deprecated will be removed in v2"

        
        public SnsRecordHandler() {
            LargeMessageConfig.init().withS3Client(/* put your custom S3Client here */);
        }

        @Override
        public String handleRequest(SNSEvent event, Context context) {
            processSNSRecord(event.records.get(0)); 
            return "Hello World";
        }

        @LargeMessage
        private void processSNSRecord(SNSEvent.SNSRecord snsRecord) {
            // snsRecord.getSNS().getMessage() will contain the content of the S3 object
        }
    }
    ```

## Migration from the SQS Large Message utility

- Replace the dependency in maven / gradle: `powertools-sqs` ==> `powertools-large-messages`
- Replace the annotation: `@SqsLargeMessage` ==> `@LargeMessage` (the new module handles both SQS and SNS)
- Move the annotation away from the Lambda `handleRequest` method and put it on a method with `SQSEvent.SQSMessage`
  or `SNSEvent.SNSRecord` as first parameter.
- The annotation now handles a single message, contrary to the previous version that was handling the complete batch.
  It gives more control, especially when dealing with partial failures with SQS (see the batch module).

> - The new module only provides an annotation, the `SqsUtils` is not available anymore in this new version.

Author: ```suggestion
- The new module only provides an annotation, the `SqsUtils` is not available anymore in this new version.

Also, if you are still using the `powertools-sqs` library for batch processing, consider moving to `powertools-batch` at the same time to remove the dependency on this library completely; it has been deprecated and will be removed in v2.
```

---
title: Large Messages
description: Utility
---

The large message utility handles SQS and SNS messages which have had their payloads
offloaded to S3 if they are larger than the maximum allowed size (256 KB).

!!! Notice

>     The large message utility (available in the `powertools-sqs` module with v1.16.1 or lower) is now deprecated

Author: ```suggestion
    The large message utility (available in the `powertools-sqs` module for versions v1.16.1 and earlier) is now deprecated
```

    public class SqsBatchHandler implements RequestHandler<SQSEvent, SQSBatchResponse> {
        private final BatchMessageHandler<SQSEvent, SQSBatchResponse> handler;
    
        public SqsBatchHandler() {
            handler = new BatchMessageHandlerBuilder()
                    .withSqsBatchHandler()
                    .buildWithRawMessageHandler(this::processMessage);
        }

        @Override
        public SQSBatchResponse handleRequest(SQSEvent sqsEvent, Context context) {
            return handler.processBatch(sqsEvent, context);
        }

        @LargeMessage
        private void processMessage(SQSEvent.SQSMessage sqsMessage) {
            // do something with the message
        }
    }
    ```

!!! tip "Use together with idempotency module"
    This utility also works together with the idempotency module (`powertools-idempotency`). 
    You can add both the `@LargeMessage` and `@Idempotent` annotations, in any order, to the same method. 
    The `@Idempotent` takes precedence over the `@LargeMessage` annotation.
    It means Idempotency module will use the initial raw message (containing the S3 pointer) and not the large message.

>     Using the large message would end up with potential issues when inserting the data in DynamoDB, where items

Author: ```suggestion
```

offloaded to S3 if they are larger than the maximum allowed size (256 KB).

!!! Notice

>     The large message utility (available in the `powertools-batch` module with v1.16.1 or lower) is now deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The large message utility (available in the `powertools-sqs` module with v1.16.1 or lower) is now deprecated
```

    and replaced by the `powertools-large-messages` described in this page.
    You can still get the documentation [here](sqs_large_message_handling.md)
    and the migration guide [here](#migration-from-the-sqs-large-message-utility).

## Features

- Automatically retrieve the content of S3 objects when SQS or SNS messages have been offloaded to S3.
- Automatically delete the S3 Objects after processing succeeds.
- Compatible with the batch module (with SQS).

## Background

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: 🎉

    }
    ```

!!! tip "Use together with idempotency module"
    This utility also works together with the idempotency module (`powertools-idempotency`). 
    You can add both the `@LargeMessage` and `@Idempotent` annotations to the same method. 
    The `@Idempotent` takes precedence over the `@LargeMessage` annotation. 
    It means Idempotency module will use the initial raw message (containing the S3 pointer) and not the large message.

>     Using the large message would end up with potential issues when inserting the data in DynamoDB, where items

Reviewer: Do we need this sentence at all, now that you have organised the precedence?

Author: I already say 

> The `@Idempotent` takes precedence over the `@LargeMessage` annotation.

what should we add ?

Author: maybe something about our discussion and the deleted file in S3...

Reviewer: I think the comment about the precedent is all we need:
> The @Idempotent takes precedence over the @LargeMessage annotation.

This part, explaining (as I understand it) the reason the precedence can't work the other way around, feels unnecessary - with the precedence, you've made sure it doesn't work this way at all, right?

Reviewer: > maybe something about our discussion and the deleted file in S3...

Is this a user-facing detail?

Author: Not sure to get your comment. But whatever the order you choose for annotations on the method, Idempotency will always be the first executed (and thus using the S3 pointer rather than the full S3 content).
The lifecyle is actually: 
> idempotency (lock the idempotency key) => large message (get S3 content) => function code (`pjp.proceed`) => end of large message code (delete s3 file) => end of idempotency code (store the result in DB)

Regarding the s3 file, I'm actually not sure what can happen:
- If get from S3 or function code fails or deletion fails, the file is not deleted, so we can retry...
- If deletion succeed but end of idempotency fails, ... it's more an idempotency stuff than large message actually. If idempotency fails after the method succeeds, I don't remember what happens but it will be the same here

Reviewer: > But whatever the order you choose for annotations on the method, Idempotency will always be the first executed (and thus using the S3 pointer rather than the full S3 content).

This is what I mean. I think we can stop at line 339:
> It means Idempotency module will use the initial raw message (containing the S3 pointer) and not the large message.

The rest, talking about what would happen if that _wasn't_ the case, is unnecessary detail for the user IMHO.

  or `SNSEvent.SNSRecord` as first parameter.
- The annotation now handles a single message, contrary to the previous version that was handling the complete batch.
  It gives more control, especially when dealing with partial failures with SQS (see the batch module).

> - The new module only provides an annotation, the `SqsUtils` is not available anymore in this new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new module only provides an annotation, an equivalent to the `SqsUtils` class is not available anymore in this new version.
```

> Also, if you are still using the `powertools-sqs` library for batch processing, consider moving to `powertools-batch` at the same time to remove the dependency on this library completely; it has been deprecated and will be removed in v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, if you are still using the `powertools-sqs` library for batch processing, consider moving to `powertools-batch` at the same time to remove the dependency on this library completely; it has been deprecated and will be removed in v2.
```
